What's the big deal about
going into the digital domain?
Of course you could compress the data,
in order to make better,
more efficient use of the data plane,
but that requires for
us to develop a deep understanding of
the signals that we are dealing with.
Harvey Fletcher was another
brilliant scientist at Bell Labs and
in the 1930s he contributed to
the theory of articulation index.
It's a measure of how
intelligible the speech is so
that they could have automated
tests on measuring how clear
the speech was when they were transmitting
over local lines and long distance lines.
And later on this technology found
many users in hearing aids and
other fields, but
AT&T is credited with having
one of the best sound qualities
in the public telephone systems.
He also did painstaking lab
work using cadavers and
pigs to find out what sounds we
actually hear at what loudness.
It turns out that we are very
nicely tuned to some frequencies,
but not some other frequencies.
So what you're seeing here in
this particular graph are called
equal loudness curves.
Each of the lines there
you would have to have,
if you look at the signals around 4 kHz,
they're very very,
the ear, the cochlea is very,
very sensitive to those sounds.
They need to be very,
very faint before you pick it up.
But the signal at one kHz or
100 hertz to create the same
loudness sensation,
it has to be much bigger than this.
In this particular example,
it's almost 40 dB
higher before you can perceive
them as the same loudness.
And this, of course, varies depending on
the intensity of the sound dem cells.
So this was a real insight and
very useful lab
data for a whole bunch of
technologies that came later on.
The next thing that he did was he
gave the concept of critical bands.
The ear, inside the ear you have
the cochlea which works
as a spectrum analyzer,
the signals that are sensed
by the tympanum,
and it does not have equal bandwidths.
But the signals in
the 100-1000 hertz range,
they have about 100 hertz bandwidth.
And as you can see in this graph,
once you go above one
kilohertz they have bandwidths
increasing at the logarithmic skip, and so
the spectral processing of the cochlear
is on a logarithmic scale,
and what this leads to is something
called the masking effect in our hearing.
The masking effect here is,
if you have a tone at 250 hertz
in this picture,
it essentially makes the tone at 150 hertz
completely inaudible because they're
in the two neighboring critical bands.
The guy at 250 hertz completely masters.
So what this means is if
you're trying to send the data
over the telephone network or
saving this in an iPod, for
instance, to be played back later,
you don't need to represent the 150
hertz signal in this example.
This is called simultaneous masking.
That is, these two tones are present at
the same time in two different bands.
This also happens across time domain.
It's called pre-masking and post-masking.
For example, when you hear a loud drum or
an explosion or
cymbals, the ear goes deaf for a few
tenths of milliseconds before
you can get your sensation back.
And any data that is presenting this
signal at that particular time, even if
you don't represent it in your coding, the
people on the other side would not hear.
This is called transparent coding and
this whole technology is
called perceptual coders, and
this work was done in the labs and
flown off to other labs around the world.
This is the perceptual audio
coder which is used in MP3, AAZ,
your iPods and content, the audio
track of Netflix, so on and so forth.
Busy graph, again,
I just want you to focus on the block
with a red circle around it.
This is the perceptual model.
Based on Fletcher's and
Munson's work in audio coding,
you would have a separate processor that
would, for each 20 millisecond audio or
40 millisecond audio, you would actually
compute what parts you would actually
hear and what you would not hear and
doesn't code.
So this gives them a saving of one
to eight, one to 12 in the bit rate,
and you still would not hear any
difference between the CD music and
what you would hear from
the same content on your iPod.
AT&T was also looking
at speech signals for
compressing speech signals it is
not based on speech perception, but
it is more based on speech production.
And, the speech production
model was used by
AT&T engineer
Bishnu Atal to develop
linear predictive coding.
Again, using this technique,
the analog tel quality can be
obtained at one to two bits per sample,
and using data compression.
So, as you can see, the sampling theorem
led to a lot of further innovations in
our understanding of how we
perceive speech and music,
how we produce speech,
and also how we interpret,
or perceive, visual data and images.